README.md, before:

eazdevirt
=========

eazdevirt is a toolkit for inspecting and devirtualizing executables that have
been protected with [Eazfuscator.NET]'s virtualization feature.

eazdevirt uses [dnlib] to read and write assemblies, which is included as a
submodule.

Features
========

* Identify all methods (stubs) which have been virtualized
* Devirtualize methods for which all virtual opcodes are understood
* Identify and extract the embedded resource file containing virtualization info
* List all virtual opcodes and indicate which are identified

Common Issues / Solutions
=========================

Resolution of Types, Methods, etc.
----------------------------------

Because of how [Eazfuscator.NET]'s virtual machine works, resolving some types
and methods requires that their names and MDTokens be as expected (more
specifically, to match what is found in the embedded resource file). This means
that running [de4dot] against an executable with the default options before
attempting to devirtualize said executable might cause certain types/methods to
not resolve correctly.

However, **eazdevirt** also requires (in most cases) the control flow of the
program to be deobfuscated. Otherwise it might not detect certain virtual
opcodes, and in some cases it might not work at all.

One way around this is the following:

```sh
de4dot --dont-rename --keep-types --preserve-tokens MyAssembly.exe
eazdevirt -d MyAssembly-cleaned.exe
de4dot MyAssembly-cleaned-devirtualized.exe
```

... leaving the result as MyAssembly-cleaned-devirtualized-cleaned.exe

If de4dot is having trouble decrypting strings, try appending `--strtyp none`
after the input filename:

```sh
de4dot --dont-rename --keep-types --preserve-tokens MyAssembly.exe --strtyp none
...
de4dot MyAssembly-cleaned-devirtualized.exe --strtyp none
```

Building
========

Mono
----

To build with Mono:

```sh
git submodule update --init
xbuild eazdevirt.sln
```

MSVS
----

On a Windows machine with MSVS installed, opening the solution file and
building in Visual Studio should be sufficient (after updating the submodule
as shown above).

`msbuild eazdevirt.sln` should also work.


[de4dot]:https://github.com/0xd4d/de4dot
[dnlib]:https://github.com/0xd4d/dnlib
[Eazfuscator.NET]:https://www.gapotchenko.com/eazfuscator.net

Commit message:

Updated readme with special thanks section

README.md, after:

eazdevirt
=========

eazdevirt is a toolkit for inspecting and devirtualizing executables that have
been protected with [Eazfuscator.NET]'s virtualization feature.

eazdevirt uses [dnlib] to read and write assemblies, which is included as a
submodule.

Features
========

* Identify all methods (stubs) which have been virtualized
* Devirtualize methods for which all virtual opcodes are understood
* Identify and extract the embedded resource file containing virtualization info
* List all virtual opcodes and indicate which are identified

Common Issues / Solutions
=========================

Resolution of Types, Methods, etc.
----------------------------------

Because of how [Eazfuscator.NET]'s virtual machine works, resolving some types
and methods requires that their names and MDTokens be as expected (more
specifically, to match what is found in the embedded resource file). This means
that running [de4dot] against an executable with the default options before
attempting to devirtualize said executable might cause certain types/methods to
not resolve correctly.

However, **eazdevirt** also requires (in most cases) the control flow of the
program to be deobfuscated. Otherwise it might not detect certain virtual
opcodes, and in some cases it might not work at all.

One way around this is the following:

```sh
de4dot --dont-rename --keep-types --preserve-tokens MyAssembly.exe
eazdevirt -d MyAssembly-cleaned.exe
de4dot MyAssembly-cleaned-devirtualized.exe
```

... leaving the result as MyAssembly-cleaned-devirtualized-cleaned.exe

If de4dot is having trouble decrypting strings, try appending `--strtyp none`
after the input filename:

```sh
de4dot --dont-rename --keep-types --preserve-tokens MyAssembly.exe --strtyp none
...
de4dot MyAssembly-cleaned-devirtualized.exe --strtyp none
```

Building
========

Mono
----

To build with Mono:

```sh
git submodule update --init
xbuild eazdevirt.sln
```

MSVS
----

On a Windows machine with MSVS installed, opening the solution file and
building in Visual Studio should be sufficient (after updating the submodule
as shown above).

`msbuild eazdevirt.sln` should also work.

Special Thanks
==============

* [0xd4d], for the amazing [dnlib]
* Exclusive, for providing samples and helping debug along the way

[0xd4d]:https://github.com/0xd4d
[de4dot]:https://github.com/0xd4d/de4dot
[dnlib]:https://github.com/0xd4d/dnlib
[Eazfuscator.NET]:https://www.gapotchenko.com/eazfuscator.net
